
## Export Method

<br>

### Windows to Linux connection to own user


To connect from a Windows machine to a Linux server using PuTTY and a key pair generated with PuTTYgen, follow these steps:

Generate a Key Pair with PuTTYgen:

Open PuTTYgen.
Click on the "Generate" button to create a new key pair.
Follow the instructions to generate the key pair.
Save the private key (.ppk) and public key (.pub) to your Windows machine.
Add Public Key to Linux User's Authorized Keys:

Log in to your Linux server.
Navigate to the home directory of the user you want to connect as (cd ~username).
If the .ssh directory doesn't exist, create it: mkdir -p ~/.ssh
Open or create the authorized_keys file in the .ssh directory: nano ~/.ssh/authorized_keys
Paste the content of the public key (.pub) generated by PuTTYgen into this file.
Save and close the file.
Set Permissions on the authorized_keys file:

Ensure the correct permissions are set:
chmod 700 ~/.ssh
chmod 600 ~/.ssh/authorized_keys

Configure PuTTY to Use the Private Key:
Open PuTTY.
In the "Category" pane, navigate to "Connection" -> "SSH" -> "Auth".
Browse and select the private key (.ppk) file you generated with PuTTYgen.
Go back to the "Session" category.
Enter the IP address or hostname of your Linux server.
Specify the port if it's not the default SSH port (22).
Save these settings if you want to reuse them.
Connect to Linux Server:

Click on "Open" to establish the SSH connection.
If everything is configured correctly, you should be logged in to your Linux server as the specified user using the private key for authentication.
Ensure that the user you're connecting as on the Linux server has appropriate permissions and access rights. If you encounter any issues, double-check the file permissions and ensure the public key is correctly added to the authorized_keys file.

<br>

### Windows to Linux connection to different user

<br>
STEP 1:Login to different user using

STEP 2:

1. Log in to your Unix server using PuTTY 
and enter Host Name
2. Create the ~/.ssh directory if it doesn't exist:
3. Append the contents of the public key (from PuTTYgen) to the ~/.ssh/authorized_keys file on the server.
4. Make sure the ~/.ssh directory has proper permissions (700) and the authorized_keys file has the correct permissions (600).

STEP 3:

1.In the 'Connection' -> 'SSH' -> 'Auth' category, browse and select the private key file you saved .
2.Save these settings if you want to use them again in the future.
3.Click 'Open' to establish the SSH connection to the server for keyless authentication.





### Linux to Linux connection to own user

<br>


### Linux to Linux connection to different user

<br>


